chore(blog): add article about 2021 at AsyncAPI (#581)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/2021-summary.md

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Users
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       715
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       1 857<br/>
       (160% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      New Users
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       656
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       1 699<br/>
       (159% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Sessions
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       1 042
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       2 511<br/>
       (141% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Sponsored marketing

We spent $1200 on paid marketing on LinkedIn to increase awareness about AsyncAPI Hackathon and Conference. We noticed a large increase in impressions on our sponsored posts. These sponsored posts did not link to our AsyncAPI website but to the conference registration site. To summarize, $1200 converted into 763 visits to the registration website and ... wait for it ... wait for it ... 15 registrations. I have to tell you that 2021 taught me that there is nothing better than organic marketing. Better pay $1200 to contributors for their work rather than give it out to LinkedIn.

> I recommend everyone to maintain a relationship with the community also on LinkedIn. This social media is changing. Many folks that are not active on Twitter are active on LinkedIn, and you should address them. In the end, reposting stuff you have for Twitter to LinkedIn is not very time-consuming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I recommend everyone to maintain a relationship with the community also on LinkedIn. This social media is changing. Many folks that are not active on Twitter are active on LinkedIn, and you should target them. In the end, reposting stuff you have for Twitter to LinkedIn is not very time-consuming.
```

Maybe target instead of address? I don't know, sounded weird to me.

In Q4 of 2021, we also started streaming different meetings to LinkedIn. In three months, we noted 1180 views of our streaming content. So we basically enabled over 1k users to watch the content they would probably not watch if LinkedIn was their only social media channel. Think about it, omnichannel is the only way to build the community,

## Google Analytics

We use Google Analytics on [AsyncAPI website](https://www.asyncapi.com/) because we want to understand what content is most valuable for you, and we want to learn how the interest is growing. 

### Traffic got much higher

The interest is growing by a lot! Our website handles it well with the support of [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com), which is free for open-source projects.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2019
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2020
    </td>
    <td align="center">

>       2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2021
```

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Users visits
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      27 090
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      83 655<br/>
      (208% increase)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      131 802<br/>
      (57% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Sessions
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      50 405
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      147 409<br/>
      (192% increase)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      235 321<br/>
      (60% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Pageviews
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      143 059
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      362 686<br/>
      (153% increase)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      590 501<br/>
      (63% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Top blog posts

> [AsyncAPI blog](/blog) is a place where the AsyncAPI Community can publish articles. Anyone can share knowledge, experience, and showcase their work there. Just [let us](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/issues/new?template=blog.md) know what you want to write about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[AsyncAPI blog](/blog) is a place where the AsyncAPI Community can publish articles. Anyone can share knowledge, experience, and showcase their work there. Just [let us know what you want to write about](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/issues/new?template=blog.md).
```

Perhaps?

    </td>
    <td align="center">
      8 107
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jmenning/">
      Jesse Menning
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="/blog/understanding-asyncapis">
      Understanding AsyncAPIs with a Practical Example
      </a> (March 2021)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      6 161
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://twitter.com/dunithd">
      Dunith Dhanushka
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="/blog/websocket-part2">
      Creating AsyncAPI for WebSocket API - Step by Step
      </a> (April 2021)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      5 049
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://twitter.com/derberq">
      Lukasz Gornicki
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Google Search Console

In 2021 we integrated our Google Analytics with Google Search Console (GSC). I believe that numbers from GSC can show how many more people hear about AsyncAPI and gain interest in the topic. In other words, the assumption is that the more people google, the more people are aware of AsyncAPI.

> The last data we have access to is from 20th of September 2020. So we cannot fully compare 2020 and 2021. We know we had 1 230 000 (OVER ONE MILLION) impressions and 104 000 clicks in 2021 in total, but in the below table we only compare data between 20th of September and 31st of December.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last data we have access to is from the 20th of September 2020. So we cannot fully compare 2020 and 2021. We know we had 1 230 000 (OVER ONE MILLION) impressions and 104 000 clicks in 2021 in total, but in the table below we only compare data between the 20th of September and the 31st of December.
```

    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7042828#impressions">
        Total impressions
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       300 000
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       350 000<br/>
       (17% increase)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
       Impressions conversion into clicks
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       6.4% average
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       9.8% average
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
        Position in search results
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       31.3 average
    </td>
    <td align="center">
       29.7 average
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

We can compare only three months, so numbers for 2022 will definitely be better than 2021.

We did some [super basic SEO improvements](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/255) in mid 2021, which sure took effect on increased click rate. We also published a few articles with topics that people google for together with `asyncapi`, WebSocket, and OpenAPI.

I think we have proof that all additional activities planned for 2022, such as rework of existing documentation, should improve numbers even more.

> If you have more ideas on improving, just open up an issue in [the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/) and let us discuss how we can get better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have more ideas on improving, just open up an issue in [the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/), and let's discuss how we can get better.
```

"let's" sounds more natural?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have more ideas on improving, just open up an issue in [the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/), and let us discuss how we can get better.
```

Or just add the comma. As you wish.

## Twitter

By the time I gathered data for this blog post, we had 2997 followers on Twitter. 1 564 increase since the last time we had published such metrics in mid-December 2020. It is **78% more followers in a year compared to 2020**.

> I'm not gonna hide, I'm not a Twitter fan, really :smiley:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I'm not gonna hide, I'm not a Twitter fan, really. :smiley:
```

## GitHub

We notice growing traffic in [our GitHub organization](https://github.com/asyncapi) like on other channels.

### Most popular repositories

Our most popular repositories contain the AsyncAPI specification and the AsyncAPI Generator that the community can use to generate documentation and code.

[The AsyncAPI Specification repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/spec/) that had 1 357 stars in 2020 jumped to 1 870. 

[The AsyncAPI Generator repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/) grew from 198 to 417. So the number of fans doubled. 

The number of contributors also increased, but the problem is I no longer have access to tools that can help me get exact numbers, like the ones I got last year.

The good news is that we should get access to Linux Foundation Insights tool around April. It will enable us to look deep into not only GitHub stats in one place. We will definitely get more accurate numbers for 2022.

## npm

> The majority of our tools are written in JavaScript/TypeScript, and we host them on Node Package Manager(npm)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The majority of our tools are written in JavaScript/TypeScript, and we host them on Node Package Manager (npm).
```

### Top packages

> Our most important packages are [the project that provides AsyncAPI JSON Schema files](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/specs), [the Generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/generator) and [the Parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/parser). Below you can see how downloads of these packages increased.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our most important packages are [the project that provides AsyncAPI JSON Schema files](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/specs), [the Generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/generator), and [the Parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/parser). Below you can see how downloads of these packages increased.
```

      18 591
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      187 475
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      1 460 275
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Module with JSON Schema files for specification<br/>
      (new `@asyncapi/specs` & old `asyncapi`)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      79 527
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      215 016
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      1 483 839!
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

The increase in numbers is insanely huge. People automatically say that it is because of build systems, local development, or some single corporation started using it at scale. In other words, the increase could result from just one project that uses these tools as a dependency.

Let me challenge you:
- Corporations always use mirrored versions in npm. When you work on a project in a corporate network, you will always hit internal proxy. Not included in downloads.
- Most build systems cache packages that are downloaded already to improve performance. Not included in downloads.
When you work with npm locally, you also have a local cache that is used if you want to install something that you already installed. Not included in downloads.

> An interesting observation is that Generator uses Parser and Parser uses the package with AsyncAPI specs. So you can read from these data that package with specs is primarily used in AsyncAPI Parser. You can also see that Parser is a backbone for much more projects than just the AsyncAPI Generator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An interesting observation is that Generator uses Parser and Parser uses the package with AsyncAPI specs. So you can read from this data that packages with specs are primarily used in the AsyncAPI Parser. You can also see that Parser is a backbone for many more projects than just the AsyncAPI Generator.
```

> Do you see it? Last year Generator and Parser download numbers were super close to each other, now the difference is much higher, 1 MILLION!.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do you see it? Last year Generator and Parser download numbers were super close to each other, now the difference is much higher, 1 MILLION!
```

## YouTube

> The [AsyncAPI YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/asyncapi) had a massive increase in the traffic. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [AsyncAPI YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/asyncapi) had a massive increase in traffic. 
```

### Watch time

> This is the only channel where numbers did not get higher than in previous years. The main reason is that in 2020 our conference took place in March, while in 2021, it was November. We only released like 1/5 of all presentations. Let's see if I'm right. Numbers in 2022 should get up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
YouTube is the only channel where numbers were not higher than in previous years. The main reason is that in 2020, our conference took place in March, while in 2021, it was November. We only released like 1/5 of all presentations. Let's see if I'm right. Numbers in 2022 should get up.
```

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2019
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2020
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2021
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Views
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      527
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      8 830
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      10 444
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Watch time
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      29.9h
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      1 900h
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      1 672.9h
    </td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Subscribers
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      35
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      396
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      292
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Open Collective

> We earned and spent lots of money this year :money_mouth_face:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We earned and spent lots of money this year. :money_mouth_face:
```

      $1,972.31 Swags for Hackathon participants and Conference presenters<br/>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      $8,146.63
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://opencollective.com/asyncapi">
        AsyncAPI Initiative
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      $15,093.31 Marketing and Maintainance<br/>
      $3,000.00 Donation to <a href="https://opencollective.com/json-schema">
        JSON Schema
      </a> 
    </td>
    <td>
      $56 252.68
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

We also have a good amount of money thanks to the new Platinum sponsor that joined last year, IBM. Also, RedHat joined as a Gold sponsor. We also had other donations.

## Final words

We grow. Numbers just confirm our observation. We grow not only because people love to build a community around the specification. We grow because AsyncAPI Initiative is attractive for contributors because we also host tools related to AsyncAPI.

If you want to look at more data, some of it is available [in this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KxEkX9BqtJ4WIkh-NMftq5pDTcBStV_pHqa6P6-7bfM/edit?usp=sharing) and for others you just need to contact me directly. 

> In 2022 we need to establish a stronger bond with the community. We have many folks that give back a lot of time into the project, and it is time to give back. The main goals we have:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2022, we need to establish a stronger bond with the community. We have many folks that give back a lot of time into the project, and it is time to give back. The main goals we have:
```

- Meet in person for AsyncAPI Conference
- Setup Ambassador program to give back to most active community members

> - Involve in more events like Google Summer of Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Get involved in more events like Google Summer of Code
```
